Since it just came out, I have the
chance to get the speedrun record for
obtaining a golden dandelion. I need
three things. A dandelion, eight gold
nuggets, or one gold ingot, and a
crafting table, which is really just one
log. But mining for gold would take a
long time. So, luckily, it spawns as
loot in various structures, most easily
in ruined portals, shipwrecks, and
certain village houses. So, after
generating hundreds of worlds, this
happened. I spawned in and immediately
mined a log. I looked around and found
this ocean before I caught a dandelion
in the corner of my eye. I mined it,
made a crafting table, and headed to the
ocean to look for a shipwreck when I
found this ruined portal, which had gold
that I crafted into a golden dandelion
in 40 Second.